running on ice and now it seems against
time this is just one of the 25,000
polar bears that live in the Arctic a
population that's currently stable 30
years ago the biggest threat to the
survival of polar bears was hunting
now there's growing evidence to indicate
the greatest future challenge to these
creatures may be the ecological changes
caused by global warming WWF is funding
research by the Norwegian polar
Institute to satellite collar and track
polar bears scientists learn about the
Bears by observing them in their natural
habitat radio collars send signals via
satellite that are used to plot a polar
bears path from the data collected
scientists can determine when a female
enters the den when she emerges with
Cubs and how far she travels every day
the tracking also enables scientists to
map a polar bears range determining
whether specific groups travel vast
distances or only remain within their
home range over time this is monitored
to see whether there are any changes for
example if there is less ice because of
global warming what do the Bears do and
where do they go seasoned Arctic
researchers have themselves noticed
rapid changes to the environment about
five years ago we were we were came by
here and we were sitting down on the
rocks just in front of the order of a
glacier there and in about five years
now this this whole island has been
exposed so the glacier foam has gone
back about yeah a couple hundred meters
in five years Arctic sea ice is
shrinking and since the 1970s there's
been an increase in the number of days
each summer where the temperature is
warm enough for the ice to melt the
earlier breakup of sea ice limits the
polar bear hunting season and forces
them to come ashore earlier
it's now known that if ice melts earlier
in the spring by as little as a week it
has significant impacts on polar bears
as sea ice is being reduced in the
Arctic its basis for survival is being
threatened the sea ice is melting
earlier in the spring which is sending
the polar bears to land earlier without
them having developed enough fat
reserves to survive the ice-free season
by the end of the summer they're skinny
bears and we've seen in places like
Hudson Bay that their reproductive
success is being jeopardized WWF
believes that implementing the UN
Convention on Climate Change and the
Kyoto Protocol a minimal first steps if
the war against global warming is to be
won it's also crucial to the survival of
species such as the polar bear